.TH "ENIGMA" "6" "March 14th, 2005" "Daniel Heck" "The Free Oxyd Clone"
.SH "NAME"
enigma \- Puzzle game reminiscent of Oxyd
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBenigma\fR [\fB\-\-nosound\fR] [\fB\-\-nomusic\fR]
[\fB\-\-nograb\fR] [\fB\-\-window\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fBhelp\fR]
[\fB\-\-data=dir\fR] [\fB\-\-lang=lang\fR]
[\fB\-\-version\fR]
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.
Enigma is a puzzle game similar to Oxyd on the Atari ST or Rock'n'Roll
on the Amiga and good old "Marble Madness".
.PP 
In Enigma, your objective is to locate and uncover matching pairs of
Oxyd stones. Simple as it sounds, this task is made more difficult by
the fact that Oxyd stones tend to be hidden, inaccessible, or protected
by unexpected traps. Overcoming these obstacles often requires a lot
of dexterity and wit (and can be quite addictive).
.PP
.B For more information, please refer to the HTML manual!
.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.
.IP "\-\-nosound"
Start Enigma without sound. Enigma uses SDL for its sound output.
.IP "\-\-nomusic"
Start Enigma without music. Sound effects will still be played.
.IP "\-\-nograb"
Do not use exclusive mouse/keyboard access.
.IP "\-\-window"
Run Enigma in a window; do not switch to fullscreen mode.
.IP "\-\-data=dir, \-d dir"
Prepend a directory to Enigma's search path.
.IP "\-\-lang=lang, \-l lang"
Override the default language.  See examples.
.IP "\-\-help, \-h"
Display a list of available command line options and quit.
.IP "\-\-version"
Print the Enigma version number and quit.
.
.SH "USAGE"
.
The objective of the game is to find and activate pairs of "Oxyd"
stones with matching colors.  To this end, you are equipped with a
small black ball that you control with your mouse.  But watch out!
There are lasers, bombs, pits, and other harmful objects that may
interfere with that simple goal, not to mention the countless devious
puzzles the level designers have put in.
.PP 
There are several in\-game control keys.
.IP "Left mouse button"
Apply the selected item in your inventory.
.IP "Right mouse button or mouse wheel"
Rotate inventory items.
.IP "Tabulator"
Rotate inventory items.
.IP "Escape"
Enter the in\-game menu.
.IP F1
Display help screen.
.IP F3
Restart the current level.
.IP F4
Move to the next level.
.IP F5
Move to the next unsolved level.
.IP F10
Take a screenshot.
.IP Left
Decrease mouse speed.
.IP Right
Increase mouse speed.
.IP Alt+Return 
Toggle between fullscreen and windowed display.
.IP Alt\-X 
Return to the level menu immediately.
.
.SH "BUGS"
.
Please report bugs to <enigma\-devel@nongnu.org>.
.
.SH "AUTHORS"
.
Daniel Heck <dheck@ix.urz.uni\-heidelberg.de> is the main author 
and maintainer of Enigma.
Enigma itself is based on Oxyd, created by Meinolf Schneider.
This manual page was created by Joe Wreschnig <piman@sacredchao.net> 
and is currently maintained by Daniel Heck.
